10 April 2006 0.7.5
  Moved back to Plain C for future releases
  Reimplementation of keymaps so they are now XML based
  Midi import 
  Lilypond Export Updates
  Reimplementation of rc files so that they are now XML
  Removal of Blank rest modes
  Crash Recovery
  Lots of memory leak fixes
  Help Manual now available
  Revised CSound export
  Revised Print functionality
  Blank notes are now displayed in Yellow to aid in viewing the score
  Keybindings for inserting Time Signatures, Key Signatures and Clefs

30 October 2005 0.7.4
  Help Documentation 
  Support for exporting to Lilypond 2.6
  All ornaments/articulations added
  Replace Mode
  Basic Redo/Undo Functionality for individual objects
  More Templates available
  Export to PDF (via lilypond processing) Courtesy of Jens Askengren
  
  
3 April 2005 0.7.3beta2
  Revised Menu's (GTK 2.6 based)

10 February 2005  0.7.3beta1
  Score Templates
  Additional Keymaps 
  Revised Menu's
  Additional Staff functions

23 March 2003: 0.7.0
  First C++ realese
  Features plugins for the first time. Although the API 
  still has to be finalised.
  Optional use of gtk2
  Added support for Figured Bass courtesy of Richard Shann
  Automated Testing again courtesy of Richard Shann
  MDI interface.
  Cautionary Accidentals, Alasdair Anderson
  Cloned chords when tieing a note.
  Graceful Exit when denemo fails, saves current scores so work is 
  not lost

22 November 2002: 0.6.1
  Fixed Lilypond parser for >1.4.x Lilypond syntax
  Various other small fixes
     
29 May 2002: 0.6.0
  Added Basic Support for Lyrics
  Added Invisible Notes
  File I/O dialogs now remeber the last Directory 
  (courtesy of Damian Marques Lluch)
  Midi Instrument Selection is easier and /dev/sequencer
  selection for Alsa playback(courtesy of goto <harpy@lily.freemail.ne.jp>)
  Added CSound Score file exporter and Optional  CSound playback
  Reimplementation of Dynamics
		       
		         
13 November 2001: 0.5.7
  Basic Printing Support
  Various bug fixes
  Probably the Last Straight Forward C release 
			       
3 July 2000: 0.5.6
  Support for Hairpins (incomplete/buggy)
  Supports GNU Lilypond >v1.3.146 (Input parser requires some work).
  XML File Format supported (courtesy of Eric Galluzzo)
  Midi File Output supported (courtesy of Per Andersson)
  Support for additional instrument specific articulations.
  Internationalization of Denemo (Translations still required).
  Supports Mouse positioning of cursor.
  

12 Nov 2000: 0.5.5
  Improved positioning code.
  Support for keyboard customization.
  Preliminary support for multinote slurs.
  Support for staccato, fermata, accent, tenuto, turn, trill, mordent,
    and staccatissimo markings.
  Denemo now understands that the score window may not be enough
    to show all staffs; the cursor will scroll the score up and down
    if necessary.
  Horizontal and vertical scrollbars now track and control the part of
    the score being displayed.

10 Aug 2000: 0.5.4
  Support for Mudela header information (title, composer, etc.)
    (patch courtesy of Laurent Martelli)
  Denemo keeps track of the present file name and allows you to do
    save it off without specifying the filename again (this can
    be done instead with Save As.)
  Remodalized dialogs that had been made non-modal.
  The graphics are now done with bitmaps rather than pixmaps.
    (initial work done by Laurent Martelli)
  Support for multiple voices within a single staff.
  Support for tuplets.
  Denemo now explicitly states that key changes are major
    (patch courtesy of Mark Burton.)
  denemo.spec file now allows for easy building of binary RPM files
    (patch courtesy of Sourav Mandel.)
  Support for stemming directives -- a very important component
    of support for multiple voices on a single staff.
  Support for dynamics.
  Support for changing the notehead type of a tone (still a little
    buggy/incomplete.)

22 Apr 2000: 0.5.3
  Denemo now has selection, cut, copy, and paste operations.
  Separate preferences dialog, and the settings made therein persist
    through the use of configuration files.
  Option for having Denemo immediately output what notes and chords
    sound like as you enter them. (patch courtesy Brian Delaney)
  Sanified dialog boxes - all have titles and hitting enter in a text
    entry always does a reasonable thing.
  Created a dialog for navigating directly to a measure by entering its
    number.
  Applied patch from Roy Rankin, other miscellaneous bugfixes.

4 Apr 2000: 0.5.2
  Denemo is now an official part of the GNU project.
  Support for changing the key, clef, and time signature mid-staff. This
    support is highly complete; when you enter a such an item, the program
    does everything that you'd expect it to, including saving the change
    and reloading it correctly.
  Key signature indicators (both midstream changes and indicators of
    the context at the leftmost measure) now take up an appropriate
    amount of space rather than a hard-coded amount.
  A tie connecting two notes that are not identical is treated by the mudela
     importation and exportation routines as a slur.

26 Mar 2000: 0.5.1
  Added tearoffs to the menus.
  MIDI instrument now in staff properties.
  Cleaned up and reorganized keyresponses.c.
  One can now change the duration of an existing chord with shift-duration
    indicator.
  Denemo will ask you to confirm if your actions will destroy a score
    that hasn't yet been saved.
  Help->List Keybindings exists; Help->About now does something.
  Other miscellaneous bugfixes and improvements.

21 Mar 2000: 0.5.0
  Denemo can now load the mudela files it produces. Thus, in a sense,
    mudela can now be considered one of Denemo's native file formats.
  Support for tenor and soprano clefs.
  Support for MIDI playback. (It accomplishes this by exporting mudela,
    invoking lilypond -m, and then invoking an external MIDI player of
    the user's choice.)
  Miscellaneous bugfixes.

1 Mar 2000: 0.3.5
  The load function largely works. It smears out chords into arpeggios
    right now and doesn't quite deal with empty measures correctly, but
    expect this to be fixed in relatively short order.
  Support for G_8 clef courtesy of Roy Rankin.
  Supports tied notes and chords.
  Display of accidentals is now much smarter.
  Denemo now allots space to score items more intelligently -
    it allows them to have leading space (e.g., for accidentals) and
    a mudelaitem's minpixelsalloted field now accurately reflects how
    much space it'll take up.

23 Feb 2000: 0.3.4
  Denemo now beams music in a somewhat intelligent manner rather than
    drawing all notes separately.

19 Feb 2000: 0.3.3
  I split off the note-width-allocation algorithm into a separate function.
    As a result of this, the main drawing loop now resembles what it was
    in Denemo-0.1.x.
  Denemo now caches the x and y values of score objects rather than
    recalculating them each run through the drawing loop.
  A few other refinements that make for cleaner, faster code.

14 Feb 2000: 0.3.2
  Rewrote sections of code to avoid all use of extern global variables.
  Incorporated Ron Steinke's patch that improved the key signature dialog.
    Also fixed the control-K bug he'd noticed.
  Added support/distinction between major and minor keys.

7 Feb 2000: 0.3.1
  Added more staff properties (including a staff name, which is
    displayed on the score) as well as a dialog box for setting them.
  Added functions for measure deletion and staff deletion.
  Similarly, the user may now add new measures in the middle of the piece
    rather than just the end.
  If the user enters too many notes to the last measure of a piece,
    Denemo will now automatically add an extra measure.
  Simplified some internals and fixed a bug in the drawing mechanism.
  Added support for dotted notes and rests.
  Wrote the export-to-mudela function, which produces fully
    typesettable mudela (tested against Lilypond 1.2.17uu1.)

3 Feb 2000: 0.3.0
  New homepage and download area at http://denemo.sourceforge.net/
  I've abandoned the fixed-measure width paradigm and rewritten the main
    drawing loop such that the basic elements being drawn are the measures,
    not the staves.
  Sixtyfourth notes are thus no longer piled on top of each other, and
    measures expand to accomodate them when necessary.
  Nonetheless, simultaneous music correctly lines up vertically. (It no longer
    handles multiple simultaneous time signatures, though, and will require
    some fixing before it does again.)
  Other results of this: the measures expand when asked to hold too many beats,
    and the "red" indicators from 0.1.2 now work perfectly.
  Some new stuff from Adam Tee, though his save patch is being kept separate,
    at least for now.

24 Jan 2000: 0.1.2
  Control-left and Control-right will now move the cursor around
    measure-by-measure
  Denemo calculates the number of measures it can fit in the display
    and displays only those measures
  Space between staves is now user-settable
  New commands to insert a staff first in the list or last
  Dialogs now open at the position of the mouse
  The cursor is now color-coded! A green cursor indicates it should be
    fine to add a note at the current cursor position; red indicates that
    you're off the end of the measure. (Not yet perfect.)
  Likewise, if you add too many notes to a measure, a red exclamation point'll
    now be painted at the beginning of the measure. (Also not yet perfect.)
  Adjacent tones in a chord are now staggered left-right when they're
    painted rather than being painted on top of each other.
  Moving the cursor "off" of the displayed part of the score now causes
    Denemo to adjust the part of the score displayed.
  Measure numbers are now displayed along the top of the current staff.
  A double-bar-line is now shown at the end of the piece.
  Some internal code-cleanups.
  Gave up on the "all measures are the same width" design principle, though
    the implementation still reflects it.

16 Jan 2000: 0.1.1
  Adding staffs now works in a more intelligent manner -- the clef, key, and
    time signature are set to be the same as the current staff.
  Support for setting and changing the time signature
  Support for user-adjustment of the width (in pixels) allotted to paint
    each measure. (It is the same fixed number for all measures being
    displayed.)

12 Jan 2000: 0.1.0
   I've decided that Denemo now does enough stuff that I can stop numbering
     releases in the 0.0.x's.
   From here on in, the versioning will be conventionalized a bit: an odd
     number in the minor version number will indicate a release is unstable,
     an even number, stable. Don't expect to see a stable release number until
     0.6.0 or thereabouts, though. :)
   Support for block chords. This includes viewing, modifying, and deleting
     them.
   Ledger lines for notes off of the staff are now displayed. Likewise when
     the cursor is off of the staff.

6 Jan 2000: 0.0.7
   Ability to deal with multiple staves
   Support for setting and changing a staff's initial clef via a dialog box
   Support for accidentals
   Support for setting and changing the key signature via a dialog box
   Note entry is now sensitive to the key signature and to accidentals from
     earlier in the measure

16 Dec 1999: 0.0.6
   Did autoconf/automake stuff
   As such, there's a new file in the distribution called ChangeLog; I guess
     I'll be putting a lot of this stuff there too.
   Broke up draw.c into many files, each of them smaller.

11 Dec 1999: 0.0.5
   Put in many of the hooks for working on scores with multiple staffs
   Changed pixmaps such that they are held statically within the
     functions that draw them
   Put in many of the necessary hooks for key signatures, time signatures,
     and changes therein
   Came up with a new design concept for dealing w/ key, time, and clef
     changes; see DESIGN for details
   Made the Makefile much sleeker. :)

19 Nov 1999: 0.0.4
   Added support for rests
   Reorganized code
   Adjusted the pixmap code such that the xpm files are #include'ed and then
    within the program by way of the create_from_xpm_d functions. This has
    some advantages.

18 Oct 1999: 0.0.3
   Added support for different note durations
   The pixmaps are now Lilypond pixmaps (produced by mf-to-xpms with a
    moderate amount of hand-tuning)
   As a consequence of that, note stems are now written separately from
   noteheads

5 Oct 1999: 0.0.2
   Added multimeasure support
   Added (a mostly non-functional) menubar
   Cleaned up keyresponses.c

27 Sep 1999: 0.0.1
   Initial release
