
New Additions (these need to be sorted into pressing etc.)
taken from develop list.

/* My code 1 -5 1=top priority 5=least pressing*/
I am sure there are more todos on the dev list, but this is a start I hope.
new
DONE - 1 - a way to add clefs without the gui and keybindings like shift+c & for 
adding a treble clef nd shift @ for a bass clef and shift ^ for an alto clef
etc.
1 - create a way to keep up with lilypond automatically/semiautomatically 
so that the convert-ly isn't needed.
DONE - 1 - a way to change/add time signiture without gui and keybindings
DONE - 1 - a way to add keysig without the gui
2 - scrolling playback with cursor moving karoke style
DONE - 1 - Add the lilypond version line to output lilypond file
1- update dtd to include items in comments, can this be converted to an rnc?



Started

Undo?s and Redo?s
Need to implemnet for all editing tasks


Documentation   )
	Manual needs to sync with development
	doxygen and docbook api docs and use this to implement new features to auto update manual
	add documentation to the make system so that html/pdfs are created automatically
	popup tip of the day help)	Aaron
Templates           )
		implement all the lilypond base templates and templates from finale/sibelius


BARLINES	(drawing issues)



Outstanding

1.	Up to date lilypond output	e.g.  	lilypond chord mode
						lilypond version in o/p

DONE - 1.	adding key sigs using keybindings	)	also include changing
DONE - 1.	adding times sigs using keybindings	)


2.	scrolling playback
2.	create repeat last function(s) option
2.	visual mode to go to next  measure/section etc.
2.	jumpto functions ? section end etc. (partial implementation)
2.	vim style number modifiers for navigation
STARTED -2.	score features ? score groups and book marks
2.	Denemo?s API
WHAT IS the STATUS? - 2.	score traversal functions ? moving between staffs goto first/last etc.


3.	permit macro?s/scripting
3.	Midi note entry    (plugin)
3.	menus to display the shortcut key
3.	on-the-fly changing of keybindings


4.	beginning brackets ? piano scores etc
4.	dynamics below staff?s

5.	display number of measures
5.	midi instrument selection improve
5.	lilypond mode to work in tandem with real text editor
5.	Tutorial Plugins
5.	User definable directory for manual
