This document describes Denemo's Development Roadmap 
 Version 0.75
Reorganization of Menus
Added a recent files submenu in File
Added bookmarks
Fixed memory issues
Total reworking of Csound playback
Updated user manual
Created a strict C branch of Denemo code.
moved keymap to xml format
fixed import of midi files
Added paper setup dialog
Added Getting started section to user manual
Added Direct keybindings for all attributes: Key signitures, clefs, time signitures
A New clearer DESIGN document
importmidi fixed
exportmidi fixed
midi import + export tempo function fixed
playback uses export midi by default
playbackprefs playing seperate staves and measures ranges properly

Version 0.76

exportmidi transposes instruments if it needs to transposed.
piano, orgran staff context actually does something useful.
scorewizard

Version 0.8

Alsa Support
Tip of the day dialog box- with tips being added over the next few versions. 
Mode support 
Automated Staff spacing
Addin enter key support for dialogs
finish xml keymap conversion-with headers and relaxng schema

Version 0.85
Scrolling playback
keyboard dialog finalized(either migrate to new one or delete new one)
Add playback controls to guis with keybindings for play stop pause etc.
complete recent file function - with user configurable settings for how many files to save in history

Version 0.9

make a relaxng schema from the dtd.
Complete undo's for all functions
Support for chromatic note entry
begin creation of qa system and scenerios 

Version 0.95
documentation included in the configure/make/make install procedure.


Version 1.0

Score Creation Wizard completed including transposing instrument setup
Lilypond Import - including automated sync with lilypond dev versions.
Midi format 0+2 Import
XPM's replaced by SVG's
Basic Text Editor Support
API completed. documentation for implementing/adding new features
code optimization done
Transposition fully functioning
finish qa scenes etc. and have a functioning qa system
midi keyboard imput
begin implementing better chord entry - chord mode
begin export to lilypond chord mode
begin gui reorganization
playback icons on gui for alsa play and csound play
icons on gui for New New from temlate, Score setup wizard, a toglle buttor nor the notation toolbare and articulation pallette

Version 1.5

Windows port
chord mode completed
finish export to lilypond chord mode
begin work on infastructure for ports to win/mac/freebsd/other?
add wide range of templatesbegin implementing vim keybindings with numbers
denemo will start with cursor at last edit point
implement a way to prepend accidentals as well as the curor direction (up/down)
begin implementing extending of modes: lyric, chord, midi, text etc.
longa breve 128th notes added

Version 2.0

MusicXML/Guido/ Support begin conversion
Scripting Support
documentation in workflow-new code will trigger the need for documentation about it doxygen>docbook.
start creating an announcement publicity system for denemo. A release triggers certain actions etc.
finish vim keybindings
add missing dynamics hairpins etc
all functions should have a keybinding
support for multimovements in one denemo file
tempo setting for score display as well as playback
display of measure numbers
add a repeat last operation function

Version 2.5

create a universal build system - like klik or aap or like lilypond does
make transposition dialog clearer and create transpose plugin/function to permit transposing of selections staves etc.
finer grained bookmarks down to the note level
keybindings for the currently selected keymap should be displayed on the menu next to its function
finish modes qa modes
man page

Version 3.0

finish gui reorganization
cm conversion
Denemo as a front end for editing other ascii formats (with text editor etc) to be deceided what formats to support.
add GM patch numbers/programs/drums etc
begin implementing polyphony mode (with layers?)
page view
score groups on the fly creation and the ability to hide other staves.
finer grained navigation sections, staff nuber, marked motifs etc.

version 3.5
convertors completed
support for other file formats completed
able to save snippets/motivs for reuse and manipulation(transpose etc)
graphical enhancements to denemo (piano brackets etc piano cross staff notation...)
begin macro and scripting support (recording macros and scripting language python??)

version 4.0

on the fly keybinding changes like in gimp
repeats both visual and midi
begin interactive tutorial plugin (touch typing music notation tutorial)
support for other xml backends.
search and search and replace function and dialog (also support to do search and replace without the gui)
